docs/walkthrough.md, before:

# Walkthrough
For documentation on `run_titan.py`, as well as information for running the model interactively, see the [user guide](user_guide.md).

## Parameter setup
TITAN uses the [`paraml`](https://pypi.org/project/paraml/) package for parameter management using YAML. In TITAN, parameters are sub-divided, with each parameter set referring to a main model parameter type (e.g. classes or agent demographics), a model feature (e.g. syringe services), or an exposure (e.g. hiv). Parameters may be set up in one YAML file or a folder of YAML files.

This guide will walk through creating a params file to augment the existing Atlanta setting, creating a small population to practice running. In order to best follow the next steps of the guide, users are encouraged to set this up as a single parameter file entitled `my_params.yml` in your working directory.

### Model parameters
To start, we want to edit the parameter file to run a smaller model over less time so that it will run quickly locally. To do this, we will update population size and number of timesteps. In addition, we can set the random seed to provide reproducibility. To achieve this, add the following to your `my_params.yml` file (without comments):
```
model:
  seed: # random seed
    ppl: 1234  # set random seed for population initiation
    run: 1234  # set random seed for the run
  num_pop: 100  # create small population
  time:
    num_steps: 12  # number of steps in model run
    burn_steps: 0  # number of "burn-in" steps (negative time)
```

### Demographic parameters
Your parameter file can also be used to update demographic information and distributions for agents in the model. Here, we will change the percentage of agents of each race (white and Black) in the model. Add the following to `my_params.yml` (or play around with the numbers yourself! Just make sure they add up to 1):
```
demographics:
  black:
    ppl: 0.5
  white:
    ppl: 0.5
```

### Adding a random trial
Features can also be added to the model via params. To turn on the random trial feature, first we need to activate it:
```
features:
  random_trial: true
```
We can then change the parameters for the trial. Let's make it select agents randomly:
```
random_trial:
  choice: all
```

### Other parameters
Full reference for all parameters in TITAN can be found in our [parameter web app](https://pph-collective.github.io/titan-params-app).

## Running your params file
To run your new params file, you can simply use the command:
```
run_titan -p my_params.yml -S atlanta
```
This will save the results of your model in a newly-made `results` directory, or overwrite previous results in an existing `results` directory.

## Sweeping parameters
TITAN can also sweep over a set of parameters defined by a CSV file. To use this feature, create a CSV with columns named as `.`-separated parameters. For example, you might change the probability of componenets being treated in the random trial module by using the column name `random_trial.prob` in a `sweep_val.csv` file and populating rows with random numbers between 0 and 1. To run this sweep over the first 10 rows of your CSV, you would use the command:
```
run_titan -p my_params.yml -S atlanta -W sweep_file.csv -R 1:10
```
Your results directory now contains a report with outputs using all 10 values, as well as a file linking each run's id with its value for the probability.

Commit message:

docs(user-guide): silo contributing guide; include command-line param sweeps; link params app more

docs/walkthrough.md, after:

# Walkthrough
For documentation on `run_titan.py`, as well as information for running the model interactively, see the [Running TITAN](running.md).

## Parameter setup
TITAN uses the [`paraml`](https://pypi.org/project/paraml/) package for parameter management using YAML. In TITAN, parameters are sub-divided, with each parameter set referring to a main model parameter type (e.g. [classes](https://pph-collective.github.io/titan-params-app/#/params#classes-1) or agent [demographics](https://pph-collective.github.io/titan-params-app/#/params#demographics-1)), a model feature (e.g. [syringe services](https://pph-collective.github.io/titan-params-app/#/params#syringe_services-1)), or an exposure (e.g. [hiv](https://pph-collective.github.io/titan-params-app/#/params#hiv-1)). Parameters may be set up in one YAML file or a folder of YAML files.

This guide will walk through creating a params file to augment the existing Atlanta setting, creating a small population to practice running. In order to best follow the next steps of the guide, users are encouraged to set this up as a single parameter file entitled `my_params.yml` in your working directory.

### Model parameters
To start, we want to edit the parameter file to run a smaller model over less time so that it will run quickly locally. To do this, we will update [model parameters](https://pph-collective.github.io/titan-params-app/#/params#model-1) to change population size and number of timesteps. In addition, we can set the random seed to provide reproducibility. To achieve this, add the following to your `my_params.yml` file (without comments):
```
model:
  seed: # random seed
    ppl: 1234  # set random seed for population initiation
    run: 1234  # set random seed for the run
  num_pop: 100  # create small population
  time:
    num_steps: 12  # number of steps in model run
    burn_steps: 0  # number of "burn-in" steps (negative time)
```

### Demographic parameters
Your parameter file can also be used to update [demographic](https://pph-collective.github.io/titan-params-app/#/params#demographics-1) information and distributions for agents in the model. Here, we will change the percentage of agents of each race (`white` and `black`) in the model. Add the following to `my_params.yml` (or play around with the numbers yourself! Just make sure they add up to 1):
```
demographics:
  black:
    ppl: 0.5
  white:
    ppl: 0.5
```

### Adding a random trial
Features can also be added to the model via params. To turn on the random trial feature, first we need to activate it:
```
features:
  random_trial: true
```
We can then change the parameters for the trial. Let's make it select agents randomly:
```
random_trial:
  choice: all
```

### Other parameters
Full reference for all parameters in TITAN can be found in our [parameter web app](https://pph-collective.github.io/titan-params-app).

## Running your params file
To run your new params file, you can simply use the command:
```
run_titan -p my_params.yml -S atlanta
```
This will save the results of your model in a newly-made `results` directory, or overwrite previous results in an existing `results` directory.

## Sweeping parameters
TITAN can also sweep over a set of parameters, either stepwise from the command
line or from a CSV defining a set of parameters. For either method, use 
`.`-separated parameters. For example, you might change the probability of
components being treated in the random trial module using [random_trial.prob](https://pph-collective.github.io/titan-params-app/#/params#random_trial-1).

To run this from the command line, use `param:start:stop:step`. For example, to
vary the random trial probability from 0.5 to 1 with steps of size 0.1, you can
run:
```
run_titan -p my_params.yml -S atlanta -w random_trial.prob:0.5:1.0:0.1
```

To sweep from values with a file, create a CSV with columns named as the `.`-separated parameters. For example, you might change the probability of componenets being treated in the random trial module by using the column name `random_trial.prob` in a `sweep_val.csv` file and populating rows with random numbers between 0 and 1. To run this sweep over the first 10 rows of your CSV, you would use the command:
```
run_titan -p my_params.yml -S atlanta -W sweep_file.csv -R 1:10
```
In either of the above examples, your results directory now contains a report with outputs using all 10 values, as well as a file linking each run's id with its value for the probability.
